= How to Enjoy Playing Cribbage

Made in China

People throughout the world enjoy playing cribbage ever since Sir John Suckling developed cribbage from the older game of Noddity back in the 17th century. Cribbage has steadily gained in popularity.

It's a game of points with a definite goal. Part of the fascinations of the game is that its rules offer a variety of ways to make points in the race between players for the goal. The heart of the competition and the excitement of playing cribbage lies in the suspense as to which of the players will be most alert tot he many opportunities for making points. 

== What You Need

All you need to enjoy plaing hte game is a standard cribbage board with pegs, a regular deck of 52 cards, a table or playing surface where you and a friend can be comfortably seated, some leisure time and a basic knowledge of the rules for 2-handed cribbage which you'll gain by reading through this leaflet.

== Showing and making Points

The cribbage board is merely used to keep track of the score. Each player has a set of pegs that is moved up and back on his row of holes or around the track if the board is of the continuous track type. The peg that is farthest advanced for each player indicates their total current score. The other peg shows the total after the previous play and the difference between the two is the number of points gained in teh play just completed. 

As in pinochle points are made in two ways by the play of the hand and in the count or "meld" of the hand, that is, players deal and play out their cards as shown below and then pick up their hands agai to make additional points thorugh the combinations contained in the hand. 

== Playing the Game

The easiest way into the game is to start playing it with special attention to some terms that have special meaining in cribbage and are bold face in the eplainaation that follows. 

Each player cuts the ceck for low card to choose the dealer who deals six cards to each player on e at a time. In looking fver your hand you'll find the counting of "plp" value corresponds to the numerals with the exception of the face cards which all count for ten and the aces which count for one. It takes several deals to complete a game in which one player makes a total of 121 points or 61 — whichever you decide to play — and the deal alternates between the two players. When playing for 121, if the winner reaches home before his opponent has 91, it is a "Skunk" and scores two games won. If the winner reaches 121 before his opponent has 61, it is a double "Skunk" and scores four games won. 

After the deal, each player puts 2 cards face down on the table. These 4 cards make up the crib and are put aside till after the hands are played. Then the "pone" or dealer's oppponent cuts the deck and dealer taeks the top card off the bottom section to obtain the starter which, like the crib, is set aside and has no significance during the play: if it happens to be a jack, the dealer takes 2 points for Nobs by putting his leading peg in the second hole. 

The pone starts the play by putting the card of his choice face up on the table next to his side of the cribbage board and giving up his pip value. The dealer then plays a card-choosing one if he can that will make points when added to the first card played, adding up to 15 or mating the first card for a poir — by placing it face up beside his side of the board. The third card played in like manner by the pone must make a run of three if all three cards (regardless of suit) that have been played in sequence have pip values in order — like 2–3–4. 4–3–2. 6–7–8. 8–7–6. etc.

This continues until the total pip values played add up to 31 or until one player cannot play without going over 31: in that event the other player takes a point for "Go" and must play for as long as he can add pip values that do not exceed 31. After each 31 all cards played are turned over and part of a "run" cannot be carried over for counting into the next 31 series. Any time a card played hits 31 "on the nose" the player can take 2 points, otherwise each "last card" before the other player has to stop counts one. 

1. Either player sees scoring plays that are missed the the other, he can obtain the points by calling "muggine" providing he does so immediately and shows how the score is obtained. 

While some hands will play out without reaching the 31 the hand will usually contain more than one 31 series and continues until all cards are played. Each time one player can't play without exceeding 31, he tells the other player to "Go." In summary, here are the points that can be scored in play: 

Fifteen::
  2 points
Pair::
  2 points
Triplets::
  6 points
Fours::
  12 points
Runs of 3 or more::
  1 point
  for each card

Nobs in hand::
  1 point
"Last card"::
  1 point
31 w/ last card::
  2 points

= Counting the Hand

After the last card is played they hands are counted using the starter card as if it were a fifth card in each hand. The pone counts his hand first, taking points for any and all combinations that he finds, as listed above except of course "last card" and "31", in addition he may take 4 points for a 4-card flush (4–cards in the hadn all in the same suit) and a 5–card flush pegging off his count, as for example "15-tow-four-six and eight, two pairs for 12 and four runs of three for 24" The Jack of the same suit as the starter card, found in the hand is called Nobs and counts one point. 

The dealer then does the same for his hand and then for his "second hand" or crib. To count a flush in the crib, all 4 cards must march the suit of the starter card. It should be noted that in counting the hands, the same cards can be used over and over so long as either a new card is added or the same cards form different combinations. The example above is for a hand which, with a starter card, contains a pair of fours. A five and a pair of sixes—an excellent cribbage hand. the best possible count is 29. 

= Adding Skill to Chance

Of course part of the game is the degree of luck one has in drawing a good hand or a crib that goes wll with the starter card. But the most important part of a cribbage hand is in playing to help your own socre and lower that of your opponent. The dealer should place cards in the crib which will help him, the pone will crib cards that will not help the dealer—an ace and a face card are reputedly good "baulking" cards.

Sometimes you can anticipate what your opponent will do. For example, if your own hand contains a 1 and a 4, lead one of these cards your opponent is much more likely to play a 10 "count card than any other (the deck has more of them), and then you can add the other card to count 15 for two points.

It is generally wise to take few chances of your opponent's being able to capitalize on the cards you play when you're ahead—and to take many such chances when you're behind, even at the risk of helping your opponent's score at the same tiem that you are increasing your own.

Because this is the nature of the game, it's a good idea to keep close watch on the score board to help you decide when you take a chance. 

= With More Than Two Players

Cribbage can also be played with from 3 to 6 players. The only differences have to do with sides, dealing and discard to the crib with 4 or 6 players, you play two sides with one partner pegging for each side, with four, players opposite each other are partners, five cards are dealt to each player, and each discards one to make the crib: with six, alternate players are partners fie cards are dealt to the first four players and each discards one with 3 or 5 players, as with 2 it's every man for himself and you may need more than one baord or some special arrangement that is agreed upon for each man to peg his own line of scoring: with 3, each player is dealt five cards and one is dealt to the crib each player adding one discard, with 5, each is dealt five cards except the dealer who gets four the others each discarding one to the crib. 

= Examples of Counting

Here are some examples of possible cribbage hands and how the add up after the play. Checking them out against the first six of the eight point values listed above and teh 5 for a 5-card flush that apply to the "meld" will help you to become accustomed to recognizing combinations that count. The N stands for Hist Nobs or Jack of trump and the asterisk ( * ) in dicates that the whole hand and starter are of one suit (5-card flush) Impossible hand counts are 19 25 26 and 27. The first example counts out as follows" "Fif-teen-two  four-six (the 10 and 1 are combining with each of the three fours for two points each (and triplets are 12


